>> Speaker 1: So the next section
we're gonna do is networking.
So if we kinda go back over to our app,
we can do it really on any page.
I'll do it on this main page here.
We open up the devtools, go to the Network
tab here, and I'm just gonna kinda make
this bigger and just do a refresh
with the Network tab open.
And you'll start seeing a lot of
stuff starting to come through.
So there's a couple of things to look at.
Kind of the meat of it is gonna be this
section here of the two sections, and
these are the waterfall, right?
So you can kind of see, you'll start
seeing really familiar shapes, right?
So basically what this is is as your
website loads every single issued
peer request that comes will
be shown here, who called for
it, how long it took,
how big it was, all these things.
So the x-axis over this middle
bar here is time, right?
So it's at 10, 20,
30 milliseconds, things like that.
And then each one of those
little bars is a single item.
So if I were to hover over one of them
like this I can see that the first thing
requested is this document.
So, when I was talking about patterns
you'll start to see that are familiar,
all websites work basically the same way,
right?
So I hit your website, the first thing
I get back is an HTML file, right?
A document.
It's always gonna be the first thing
that comes back.
So I get that document and
then I parse it.
And I'll look inside that document or the
browser will look inside that document and
start finding any calls
to other resources.
So these could be images,
they could be a link tags with CSS in it,
they could be script tags
with JavaScript in it.
So let's start going through this process.
So you'll always see this pattern, right?
Which is like your document, and
then as soon as your document comes down
it kicks off a bunch of other jobs, right?
So document comes down,
gets parsed and then starts asking for
all these other things, like all the
JavaScript files, all the css images, etc.
So yeah, so you can see kind
of another view is down here.
So this other view is this
top down waterfall view.
So you can see the first thing
that came down was the document,
and the second thing that
came down was the CSS file.
And what these will kind of relate to,
like if we were to go back into
the Elements tab and we were to look in
the head you'll start seeing these
in the order they appear, right?
So it's parsing the document, the first
thing it hits is this normalize.css,
sends a request for it.
Then style.css, sends a request for it.
When we go into network we can see that
they came in that exact order, right?
So it's like as it sees these requests, or
as it sees these scripts it
sends out a request for them.
There are exceptions which we're
gonna get into in a little bit,
which is that the browser really
tries to be helpful for you.
And so it often times, when it's doing
its initial run of the document,
it'll do a little bit of magic trying to
prioritize what scripts to fetch first.
So for like example it deprioritizes
images underneath let's say css, right?
Cuz its like the CSS is needed to render
the page, it's gonna look really weird if
the page renders and
then its CSS changes everything.
So if for example you were to do
an antipattern, like put an image and then
a CSS tag under it, the browser's gonna be
smart enough to pluck that CSS call up and
give it a higher priority.
So it'll do some of those things for
you, but
for the most part what you're seeing here
is the order that you declare files in.
So whatever CSS file you declare first
will be the first thing to show up.
We can see a bunch of information.
We can see its status, so
these are HTTP response codes.
You can see the type over here.
So the first one's a document,
we've got style sheets and scripts.
We can see the initiator,
which is really cool.
As you start getting, like if you have
scripts that call other scripts that call
other scripts, it might be confusing.
Like why am I fetching this?
Like I have some JavaScript file,
what's fetching?
And I don't see it in my index.html.
So you can look in here and
you can say that's getting fetched
by this other JavaScript, right?
So if you have file a.js which
has a fetch call on it for
b.js, then b is initiator as
a as opposed to being the HTML.
There's also like a hello
cool trick you can do so
you can hold the SHIFT key while
you're moving around here, and
it'll show you in green when you're
hovering, what file called it, right?
So like where did you come from?
It shows you in green, and
vice versa it'll show you in
red what files it called.
So shift is kind of like this neat visual
representation of how these things do.
You can see the size.
Size is a little bit tricky.
Let me make this a little bit,
so you'll see two things here.
For a lot of them you'll see
the actual size of the file, and
then you'll see it's compressed or
cache size.
So when we get into things like image
compression or script compression or
whatever, like using gzip on your server,
you'll start seeing drastically
different sizes there.
But we get into caching, we'll
actually see instead of a bottom size,
it'll just say from this cache.
It's like I didn't even
have to touch that thing.
So it's not really the black size
that you want to pay attention to,
as much as it's the gray size.
Again with caveats though, the first time
a user hits your page they're gonna have
to freshly download everything,
even if you have quick caching.
So things to keep in mind.
You can see the time that
it took to come down.
And then kind of all that information
is summarized in this nice visual here.
So, these are all these color coded.
Again, the x axis is time.
So the longer it is,
the longer it took to download.
And the colors all represent different
things, what it spent its time doing.
So this tool can become really powerful.
It's especially helpful,
not in a blame game way, but for
figuring out why your requests are slow.
Is it too big?
Am I asking for too many?
Is it a server problem?
Is it they're coming from
two different sources?
All these things can be gleaned
just from the Network tab,
which is a lot more
information than it's slow.